README.md, before:

# Docker NordVPN

<!--
[![GitHubPackage][GitHubPackageBadge]][GitHubPackageLink]
-->
[![DockerPublishing][DockerPublishingBadge]][DockerLink]
[![DockerSize][DockerSizeBadge]][DockerLink]
[![DockerPulls][DockerPullsBadge]][DockerLink]

### The NordVPN client for Docker

Leveraging the latest native NordVPN client, iptables and the Nord API to create the fastest, safest, and most stable connection possible for other containers and systems on your network.

## The Essentials

Build based on:

- NordVPN `latest`
  - Automatically updated from the [NordVPN repository](https://repo.nordvpn.com/deb/nordvpn/debian/pool/main/)
- Ubuntu `latest LTS`
  - Updated nightly

Examples of use:

- [nordvpn_proxy.yml](examples/)

Docker Hub repository:

- <https://hub.docker.com/r/tmknight88/nordvpn>

Optimized for NordLynx:

- NordLynx is NordVPN's fast/stable implementation of Wireguard; it is the recommended and default [TECHNOLOGY](#env-technology)

## Requirements

Wireguard on the host

- You <ins>must</ins> install Wireguard on your <ins>host</ins> in order to leverage NordLynx

Capabilities

- [NET_ADMIN](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities)

Environment

- [TOKEN](#env-token)

  - **ONLY TOKENS ARE VIABLE IN A CONTAINER**
  - The use of USERNAME and PASSWORD has been deprecated wherein only TOKEN or login via browser are accepted with the Linux client

- [NET_LOCAL](#env-netlocal)

  - Technically not required for the container to work, but it should be set if local traffic is to be routed through NordVPN

## Recommendations

IPv6

- IPv6 support is limited and generally [not supported](https://nordvpn.com/blog/ipv4-vs-ipv6/#:~:text=You%20might%20be%20wondering%20what,tunnel%20with%20the%20IPv4%20protocol.) by most VPN providers at this time
- Therefore, it is recommended to disable IPv6 support in your container via [sysctl](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#configure-namespaced-kernel-parameters-sysctls-at-runtime):

  - `net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6=1`

DNS

- Prior to establishing the tunnel, the host DNS settings will be used
- If you are concerned with DNS leakage (which will only be nordvpn.com), you should set [docker DNS](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/container-networking/#dns-services)

  - Note, this is not the same as the [DNS environment variable](#env-dns)


MESHNET
# Info/Scripts for Meshnet from https://github.com/MattsTechInfo/Meshnet

#### Meshnet Permissions
In this version of NordVPN, permissions must be configured directly on the client. NordVPN currently ALLOWS all peers connected to Meshnet by default for Fileshare and Remote access services and DENIES Routing and Local network services. Configuring peer permissions through the NordVPN account website is still in development and not currently available.

This container will run DENY configuration first, followed by ALLOW. ALLOW will overwrite the DENY! Entering a peer in both DENY and ALLOW will first DENY the peer and then overwrite it with an ALLOW.
                                                                                                                                                                                 Peers must be entered with their FQDN/Name assigned by Meshnet, comma separated, example: `peer-atlas.nord,peer-fuji.nord`

- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_ROUTING` - Block peers from using this node as a router.
- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_LOCAL` - Block peers from accessing the local network of this node.
- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_FILESHARE` - Block peers from sharing files with this node.
- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_REMOTE` - Block peers from remote access to this node.


- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_ROUTING` - Allow peers to use this node as a router.
- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_LOCAL` - Allow peers to access the local network of this node (ROUTING permissions required!).
- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_FILESHARE` - Allow peers to  sharing files with this node.
- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_REMOTE` = Allow peers to use remote access on this node.

## Environment Variables

Generally, the default settings will provide a great experience, however, several environment variables are available to provide flexibility:

| Variable                        | Default                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|:-------------------------------:|:------------------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| **BYPASS_LIST** |   | Comma-separated list of domain names that should bypass VPN (i.e. these connections should not be secured); if set, `FIREWALL` will default to FALSE                                                                                      |
| **CHECK_CONNECTION_INTERVAL**   | 60                       | Time in seconds to check connection state and remediate as required                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **CHECK_CONNECTION_URL**        | <https://www.google.com> | URL used by `CHECK_CONNECTION_INTERVAL`                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **CONNECTION_FILTERS**<span id="env-filters"></span> |                          | To connect to the fastest, lowest load server of special interest. Use the [NordVPN API](#api) to help craft your filters; largely for OpenVPN, though useful with NordLynx when wanting to set a specific country/city (e.g `filters[country_city_id]=8980922`)                                        |
| **CONNECT** ||Provide a [country] (`Australia`), [server] (`jp35`), [country_code] (`us`), [city] (`Hungary Budapest`) or [group] (`Onion_Over_VPN`) (note CONNECT overrides CONNECTION_FILTERS; use one or the other)|
| **CYBER_SEC**                   | FALSE                    | Learn more at [NordVPN](https://nordvpn.com/features/cybersec/) (TRUE/FALSE)                                                                                                                                                              |
| **DNS**<span id="env-dns"></span> |                          | A comma-separated list of IPv4/IPv6 addresses to be set as the VPN tunnel DNS servers, or non-IP hostnames to be set as the tunnel's DNS search domains (leave unset to use NordVPN servers)                                            |
| **FIREWALL**                    | TRUE                     | Use the NordVPN firewall over iptables (TRUE/FALSE; will default to FALSE when `BYPASS_LIST` in use)                                                                                                                                      |
| **KILLSWITCH**                  | TRUE                     | Use the NordVPN kill switch; `FIREWALL` must also be TRUE (TRUE/FALSE)                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **NET_LOCAL**<span id="env-netlocal"></span> |                          | Add a route to local IPv4 network once the VPN is up; the Docker network is automatically added; must be CIDR IPv4 format (e.g. `192.168.1.0/24`)                                                                            |
| **NET6_LOCAL**                  |                          | Add a route to local IPv4 network once the VPN is up; the Docker network is automatically added; must be CIDR IPv6 format (e.g. `fe00:d34d:b33f::/64`)                                                                                    |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_ROUTING**   |                          | Block peers from using this node as a router.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_LOCAL**     |                          | Block peers from accessing the local network of this node.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_FILESHARE** |                          | Block peers from sharing files with this node.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_REMOTE**    |                          | Block peers from remote access to this node.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_ROUTING**  |                          | Allow peers from using this node as a router.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_LOCAL**    |                          | Allow peers from accessing the local network of this node.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_FILESHARE**|                          | Allow peers from sharing files with this node.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_REMOTE**   |                          | Allow peers from remote access to this node.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **OBFUSCATE**                   | FALSE                    | Only valid when using TECHNOLOGY OpenVPN; learn more at [NordVPN](https://nordvpn.com/features/obfuscated-servers/) (TRUE/FALSE)                                                                                                          |
| **PORT_RANGE**                  |                          | Port range to whitelist for both UDP and TCP; (e.g. `PORT_RANGE=9091 9095`)                                                                                                                                                               |
| **PORTS**                       |                          | Semicolon delimited list of ports to whitelist for both UDP and TCP; (e.g `PORTS=9091;9095`)                                                                                                                                              |
| **POST_CONNECT**                |                          | Command to execute after successful connection                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **PRE_CONNECT**                 |                          | Command to execute before attempt to connect                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **PROTOCOL**                    | UDP                      | Only valid when using TECHNOLOGY OpenVPN (TCP/UDP)                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **REFRESH_CONNECTION_INTERVAL** | 120                      | Time in minutes to trigger VPN reconnection to help ensure best connection available (0 = disable)                                                                                                                                                      |
| **TECHNOLOGY**<span id="env-technology"></span> | NordLynx                 | Specify the VPN Technology to use (NordLynx/OpenVPN)                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **TOKEN**<span id="env-token"></span> |                          | Generated from your [NordVPN account web portal](https://my.nordaccount.com/dashboard/nordvpn/)                                                                                                                                     |

## Troubleshooting

- Ensure you have read all of the above information
- Ensure you have pulled the latest available image
  - Use `--force-recreate` to be sure
- Check and double-check all of your values
- Perform the following:
  - Start a basic container:
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
  - Perform the following in the container:
    - nordvpnd &
    - nordvpn login --token [your token]
    - nordvpn connect
  - If basic container connects without issue, then slowly/one-at-a-time, start applying any customizations and go through the previous steps with each change (yes, laborious, but that's what it takes)
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp -v [something] tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp -v [something] -e [something else] tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp -v [something] -e [something else] -e [and so on] tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
- If you've performed all of the above without determining the issue, feel free to open an issue
  - Be sure to include your log entries and be as descriptive as possible

## Additional Information

Using the NordVPN API<span id="api"></span>

- <https://sleeplessbeastie.eu/2019/02/18/how-to-use-public-nordvpn-api>

## Credits

- [bubuntux](https://github.com/bubuntux)
- [kubernetes-sigs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs)

## Disclaimers

This project is independently developed for personal use; there is no affiliation with NordVPN or Nord Security companies.  Nord Security companies are not responsible for, nor have control over, the nature, content and availability of this project.

[DockerPublishingBadge]: https://github.com/tmknight/docker-nordvpn/actions/workflows/docker-publish.yml/badge.svg
[DockerPullsBadge]: https://badgen.net/docker/pulls/tmknight88/nordvpn?icon=docker&label=Docker+Pulls&labelColor=31383f&color=32c855
[DockerSizeBadge]: https://badgen.net/docker/size/tmknight88/nordvpn?icon=docker&label=Docker+Size&labelColor=31383f&color=32c855
[DockerLink]: https://hub.docker.com/r/tmknight88/nordvpn

Commit message:

Updated credits and added install cmd for wireguard in Ubuntu.

README.md, after:

# Docker NordVPN

<!--
[![GitHubPackage][GitHubPackageBadge]][GitHubPackageLink]
-->
[![DockerPublishing][DockerPublishingBadge]][DockerLink]
[![DockerSize][DockerSizeBadge]][DockerLink]
[![DockerPulls][DockerPullsBadge]][DockerLink]

### The NordVPN client for Docker

Leveraging the latest native NordVPN client, iptables and the Nord API to create the fastest, safest, and most stable connection possible for other containers and systems on your network.

## The Essentials

Build based on:

- NordVPN `latest`
  - Automatically updated from the [NordVPN repository](https://repo.nordvpn.com/deb/nordvpn/debian/pool/main/)
- Ubuntu `latest LTS`
  - Updated nightly

Examples of use:

- [nordvpn_proxy.yml](examples/)

Docker Hub repository:

- <https://hub.docker.com/r/tmknight88/nordvpn>

Optimized for NordLynx:

- NordLynx is NordVPN's fast/stable implementation of Wireguard; it is the recommended and default [TECHNOLOGY](#env-technology)

## Requirements

Wireguard on the host

- You <ins>must</ins> install Wireguard on your <ins>host</ins> in order to leverage NordLynx.  On Ubuntu, 'sudo apt install wireguard-tools'.
Capabilities

- [NET_ADMIN](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/run/#runtime-privilege-and-linux-capabilities)

Environment

- [TOKEN](#env-token)

  - **ONLY TOKENS ARE VIABLE IN A CONTAINER**
  - The use of USERNAME and PASSWORD has been deprecated wherein only TOKEN or login via browser are accepted with the Linux client

- [NET_LOCAL](#env-netlocal)

  - Technically not required for the container to work, but it should be set if local traffic is to be routed through NordVPN

## Recommendations

IPv6

- IPv6 support is limited and generally [not supported](https://nordvpn.com/blog/ipv4-vs-ipv6/#:~:text=You%20might%20be%20wondering%20what,tunnel%20with%20the%20IPv4%20protocol.) by most VPN providers at this time
- Therefore, it is recommended to disable IPv6 support in your container via [sysctl](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/#configure-namespaced-kernel-parameters-sysctls-at-runtime):

  - `net.ipv6.conf.all.disable_ipv6=1`

DNS

- Prior to establishing the tunnel, the host DNS settings will be used
- If you are concerned with DNS leakage (which will only be nordvpn.com), you should set [docker DNS](https://docs.docker.com/config/containers/container-networking/#dns-services)

  - Note, this is not the same as the [DNS environment variable](#env-dns)


MESHNET
# Info/Scripts for Meshnet from https://github.com/MattsTechInfo/Meshnet

#### Meshnet Permissions
In this version of NordVPN, permissions must be configured directly on the client. NordVPN currently ALLOWS all peers connected to Meshnet by default for Fileshare and Remote access services and DENIES Routing and Local network services. Configuring peer permissions through the NordVPN account website is still in development and not currently available.

This container will run DENY configuration first, followed by ALLOW. ALLOW will overwrite the DENY! Entering a peer in both DENY and ALLOW will first DENY the peer and then overwrite it with an ALLOW.
                                                                                                                                                                                 Peers must be entered with their FQDN/Name assigned by Meshnet, comma separated, example: `peer-atlas.nord,peer-fuji.nord`

- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_ROUTING` - Block peers from using this node as a router.
- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_LOCAL` - Block peers from accessing the local network of this node.
- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_FILESHARE` - Block peers from sharing files with this node.
- `NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_REMOTE` - Block peers from remote access to this node.


- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_ROUTING` - Allow peers to use this node as a router.
- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_LOCAL` - Allow peers to access the local network of this node (ROUTING permissions required!).
- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_FILESHARE` - Allow peers to  sharing files with this node.
- `NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_REMOTE` = Allow peers to use remote access on this node.

## Environment Variables

Generally, the default settings will provide a great experience, however, several environment variables are available to provide flexibility:

| Variable                        | Default                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
|:-------------------------------:|:------------------------:|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| **BYPASS_LIST** |   | Comma-separated list of domain names that should bypass VPN (i.e. these connections should not be secured); if set, `FIREWALL` will default to FALSE                                                                                      |
| **CHECK_CONNECTION_INTERVAL**   | 60                       | Time in seconds to check connection state and remediate as required                                                                                                                                                                       |
| **CHECK_CONNECTION_URL**        | <https://www.google.com> | URL used by `CHECK_CONNECTION_INTERVAL`                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| **CONNECTION_FILTERS**<span id="env-filters"></span> |                          | To connect to the fastest, lowest load server of special interest. Use the [NordVPN API](#api) to help craft your filters; largely for OpenVPN, though useful with NordLynx when wanting to set a specific country/city (e.g `filters[country_city_id]=8980922`)                                        |
| **CONNECT** ||Provide a [country] (`Australia`), [server] (`jp35`), [country_code] (`us`), [city] (`Hungary Budapest`) or [group] (`Onion_Over_VPN`) (note CONNECT overrides CONNECTION_FILTERS; use one or the other)|
| **CYBER_SEC**                   | FALSE                    | Learn more at [NordVPN](https://nordvpn.com/features/cybersec/) (TRUE/FALSE)                                                                                                                                                              |
| **DNS**<span id="env-dns"></span> |                          | A comma-separated list of IPv4/IPv6 addresses to be set as the VPN tunnel DNS servers, or non-IP hostnames to be set as the tunnel's DNS search domains (leave unset to use NordVPN servers)                                            |
| **FIREWALL**                    | TRUE                     | Use the NordVPN firewall over iptables (TRUE/FALSE; will default to FALSE when `BYPASS_LIST` in use)                                                                                                                                      |
| **KILLSWITCH**                  | TRUE                     | Use the NordVPN kill switch; `FIREWALL` must also be TRUE (TRUE/FALSE)                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **NET_LOCAL**<span id="env-netlocal"></span> |                          | Add a route to local IPv4 network once the VPN is up; the Docker network is automatically added; must be CIDR IPv4 format (e.g. `192.168.1.0/24`)                                                                            |
| **NET6_LOCAL**                  |                          | Add a route to local IPv4 network once the VPN is up; the Docker network is automatically added; must be CIDR IPv6 format (e.g. `fe00:d34d:b33f::/64`)                                                                                    |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_ROUTING**   |                          | Block peers from using this node as a router.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_LOCAL**     |                          | Block peers from accessing the local network of this node.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_FILESHARE** |                          | Block peers from sharing files with this node.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **NORDVPN_DENY_PEER_REMOTE**    |                          | Block peers from remote access to this node.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_ROUTING**  |                          | Allow peers from using this node as a router.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_LOCAL**    |                          | Allow peers from accessing the local network of this node.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_FILESHARE**|                          | Allow peers from sharing files with this node.                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **NORDVPN_ALLOW_PEER_REMOTE**   |                          | Allow peers from remote access to this node.                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **OBFUSCATE**                   | FALSE                    | Only valid when using TECHNOLOGY OpenVPN; learn more at [NordVPN](https://nordvpn.com/features/obfuscated-servers/) (TRUE/FALSE)                                                                                                          |
| **PORT_RANGE**                  |                          | Port range to whitelist for both UDP and TCP; (e.g. `PORT_RANGE=9091 9095`)                                                                                                                                                               |
| **PORTS**                       |                          | Semicolon delimited list of ports to whitelist for both UDP and TCP; (e.g `PORTS=9091;9095`)                                                                                                                                              |
| **POST_CONNECT**                |                          | Command to execute after successful connection                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **PRE_CONNECT**                 |                          | Command to execute before attempt to connect                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| **PROTOCOL**                    | UDP                      | Only valid when using TECHNOLOGY OpenVPN (TCP/UDP)                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| **REFRESH_CONNECTION_INTERVAL** | 120                      | Time in minutes to trigger VPN reconnection to help ensure best connection available (0 = disable)                                                                                                                                                      |
| **TECHNOLOGY**<span id="env-technology"></span> | NordLynx                 | Specify the VPN Technology to use (NordLynx/OpenVPN)                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **TOKEN**<span id="env-token"></span> |                          | Generated from your [NordVPN account web portal](https://my.nordaccount.com/dashboard/nordvpn/)                                                                                                                                     |

## Troubleshooting

- Ensure you have read all of the above information
- Ensure you have pulled the latest available image
  - Use `--force-recreate` to be sure
- Check and double-check all of your values
- Perform the following:
  - Start a basic container:
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
  - Perform the following in the container:
    - nordvpnd &
    - nordvpn login --token [your token]
    - nordvpn connect
  - If basic container connects without issue, then slowly/one-at-a-time, start applying any customizations and go through the previous steps with each change (yes, laborious, but that's what it takes)
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp -v [something] tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp -v [something] -e [something else] tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
    - docker run -it --rm --name=nordvpn-tmp -v [something] -e [something else] -e [and so on] tmknight88/nordvpn:latest bash
- If you've performed all of the above without determining the issue, feel free to open an issue
  - Be sure to include your log entries and be as descriptive as possible

## Additional Information

Using the NordVPN API<span id="api"></span>

- <https://sleeplessbeastie.eu/2019/02/18/how-to-use-public-nordvpn-api>

## Credits

- [bubuntux](https://github.com/bubuntux)
- [kubernetes-sigs](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs)
- [tmknight](https://github.com/tmknight)

## Disclaimers

This project is independently developed for personal use; there is no affiliation with NordVPN or Nord Security companies.  Nord Security companies are not responsible for, nor have control over, the nature, content and availability of this project.

[DockerPublishingBadge]: https://github.com/tmknight/docker-nordvpn/actions/workflows/docker-publish.yml/badge.svg
[DockerPullsBadge]: https://badgen.net/docker/pulls/tmknight88/nordvpn?icon=docker&label=Docker+Pulls&labelColor=31383f&color=32c855
[DockerSizeBadge]: https://badgen.net/docker/size/tmknight88/nordvpn?icon=docker&label=Docker+Size&labelColor=31383f&color=32c855
[DockerLink]: https://hub.docker.com/r/tmknight88/nordvpn
